---
title: "Cinematography 101"
activity: "group"
date: "20130925"
release: "20130901"
layout: "default"
---

We've talked about lighting and other factors for mood. As we get back to some storytelling roots, we're going to use functions to help us create a common set of camera motions that we can use and reuse in our programs, moving us closer to being "virtual cinematographers" in our storytelling.

## The Meaning Behind Camera Movement

I found the middle 6 or 7 minutes of this video to be really informative; we'll watch it in class.

<div class="text-center">
  <iframe width="640" height="360" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/bRJ0Ei4hLWI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

Following on from this (outside of class), you'll want to study these two videos:

* [Top 20 Cinematic Techniques, Part 1](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O3EnnBDgMww)
* [Top 20 Cinematic Techniques, Part II](<iframe width="640" height="360" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/eb5OhhfnyfQ" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>)

The first video provides examples of the following camera actions:

 * Establishing Shot
 * Long Shot
 * Doggie Cam
 * Steady cam
 * Pan
 * Fast Cut/Rapid Zoom
 * Low Angle Shot
 * Crane Up
 * Dutch Angle
 * POV
 * Special Effects
 * Slow Motion
 * Panoramic Traveling
 * Horizontal Traveling
 * High angle
 * Tilt
 * Limitless Zoom
 * Camera Split
 
The second focuses on these twenty:

 * Vertigo Effect
 * Steadicam
 * Long Take
 * Frantic Zoom
 * Trombone Effect
 * Crane shot
 * Establishing Shot
 * Mirror Shot
 * Zoom Out
 * POV
 * Dutch Angle
 * Shake Cam
 * Crane Shot
 * Spin
 * Tracking Shot
 * Shot-Reverse Shot
 * Time Lapse
 * Pan
 * Slow Motion
 * Crane Up
 * Crane Right
 * Dolly Shot
 * Low Angle Shot
 * Special Effects
 * Match cuts
 * Cuts
 
## Functions of the Camera

We haven't written any procedures or functions that operate on the camera. The work we'll do in class today will get us writing some methods (I'll use that word to mean "procedure or function") that focus on the virtual camera in Alice.

We'll pair up, implement a function or procedure, and then share our work. We'll iterate this several times, and when we're done, upload our work to Moodle. This will then be shared back out so that you can all borrow from this "library" of camera code for future assignments.

In other words, we're moving towards becoming virtual directors.

### In Class

Note that I have not written all of these; some may be more difficult than others.

1. Write a method called **pan** that consumes two actors or objects in Alice, and it performs a slow pan from one to the other. It should also take a parameter that sets the duration, so the director can decide how slowly or quickly this action should take place. ([YouTube](http://youtu.be/O3EnnBDgMww?t=2m31s))


1. Write a method called **craneUp** that consumes an actor or object in Alice, a height, and a duration. It should perform a "crane up" action, using the object as the initial focus. ([YouTube](http://youtu.be/O3EnnBDgMww?t=3m13s))

1. Write a method called dutchAngle that consumes an actor, and it moves the camera from its current position to a "Dutch Angle" on that actor. ([YouTube](http://youtu.be/O3EnnBDgMww?t=3m35s))

1. Write a method called franticZoom that consumes three objects in Alice, and performs a rapid sequence of camera moves that zoom in on each of those three objects. CHALLENGE: A significant challenge would be to return the camera to the position it started from when you're done with the frantic zoom. (Hint: you'd need a variable to store the camera location at thes tart; we'll learn how to do this soon, so it represents an exploration into knowledge-you-have-not-yet-gained.) ([YouTube](http://youtu.be/O3EnnBDgMww?t=4m06s))

1. Write a method called pointOfView that consumes an object in Alice, and sets the camera to be a vehicle of that object in such a way as to track the object (or actor's) point of view.  ([YouTube](http://youtu.be/O3EnnBDgMww?t=4m18s))

1. Write a method called **panoramicTraveling**. It should consume three objects or actors in Alice and pan/travel from one object or actor to the next, maintaining a reasonable distance. Include parameters that seem reasonable: for example, distance, or duration, or anything else that you think makes it easy to create a variety of panoramic travels. ([YouTube](http://youtu.be/O3EnnBDgMww?t=5m36s))

1. Write a method called spin. It should take an object or actor, and perform a spin of a variable number of degrees (use a parameter) over a variable amount of time (use a parameter) to create an effect like that found in *2001: A Space Odyssey*. ([YouTube](http://youtu.be/O3EnnBDgMww?t=6m56s))

We'll find out how challenging these are.

### Homework

We have an exam on Monday, Mountain Day on Wednesday after that, and no class on the Monday after because of reading days. Therefore, I need to think about how I'm going to structure homework over the next 1.5 weeks. We need to be moving forward and learning, creating, and doing cool stuff, but it takes some serious thought.

We'll need to read some stories, watch some movies, and probably write some stories (as well as keep our Alice chops up). Keep an eye out for an email announcing the homeworks that are upcoming over this extended "no class but we
ll keep working" period of time.

