---
title: "Editing, Render"
activity: "group"
date: "20131106"
release: "20131031"
layout: "default"
---

**NOTE**: I'll be in, but late. We have a lot to finish, and I know you can rise to the challenge and bring things together.

You're welcome to switch up the order of these things, if you think it makes sense. I think this order will work well for you.

## "Save As" in Alice

Figure out who has the first scene, who has the second scene, and so on. 

In Alice, save your work as follows:

**HB-Scene-#**

For example, if you have the first scene, you will save your work as 

**HB-Scene-1**

If you have the third scene, save it as

**HB-Scene-3**

and so on.

This will make my life easier if I have to do anything with the scenes.

## Emergency Backup

Only one person submitted a "backup" to the "Emergency Backup" on Moodle. Everyone should [do that right now](http://moodle2.berea.edu/mod/assignment/view.php?id=97969).

Please upload the versions with names of the form **HB-Scene-#**.

If nothing else, I need these so I can pull them together and make sure characters look right in everyone's scenes.

## Status Check

Update the entire class where everything is. I'm hoping everyone is done. We were very close on Monday...

## Scene Capture

Using EzVid, capture your scenes. This means you:

1. Launch Alice

1. Launch EzVid

1. Start Screen Capture

1. Start yours scene (in full-screen mode)

1. Record the whole scene in EzVid

1. Upload the Scene to Alice.

1. Go into YouTube, and make your video **UNLISTED**. (See the EzVid practice assignment for how to do this.)

Now, in the HB Wiki on Moodle, you should edit the [List of Scenes for Assembly](http://moodle2.berea.edu/mod/wiki/view.php?pageid=780&group=0) page, and list each YouTube link (so I can find your scenes later). 

We might have to re-record these... but, I want something to work with in the meantime. 

## Audio Recording

Remember: **aspire to being expressive**.

I've set up the audio recording facilities for you. It's pretty straight-forward.

1. Turn on the Marantz audio recorder. This is a power switch on the side.

1. It is set up in the correct mode to record from the microphones. Don't play with things. Buttons are fun, but not today.

1. Attach the microphone to your lapel, and read your lines normally. Don't play with the cable, or move around, as it will make awful noises in the recording. Stand (mostly) still while reading your lines.

1. To start recording, press the big, round **REC** button. The display will start counting when it is recording. To pause the recording, press **REC** a second time. 

1. While the recording is running (or paused), you should be able to listen to the headphones and hear people speaking into the mics. This is a good thing to check.

1. When starting a recording, give a second or two of quiet before you start talking. Don't start talking as soon as you press the button. The recorder has an 8GB memory card in it; you could record for days, probably, so we won't run out of "tape."

1. At the start of a scene, tell me what it is, and then wait for a second or two, so that we have some quiet before you start the lines. It makes editing easier.

1. When you're done with a scene, go ahead and pause the recording. Repeat the process as many times as necessary.

When you're done, press the stop button a few times. You should have everything captured. In the absolute worst case, you will have captured nothing. This is, however, not a big deal: we can do the recording again if we need to. And, this will be a good practice.

## Until Next Time

At this point, I should have:

1. An uploaded version of all of the scenes, as Alice3 files, named **HB-Scene-#**.

1. A list of links to scenes on YouTube, video recorded with EzVid.

1. An audio recording of all of the lines. 

And, I should be in class before the end of the period, so we'll touch base then.

