---
title: Weekly Project Updates
activity: "writing"
date: "201311180500"
release: "20131111"
layout: default
---

## Weekly Updates

An import part of a successful project is consistent work every week. Putting a project off until the last minute is a recipe for disaster... **especially in electronics**. Things go wrong. Things confuse you. Parts die. Parts were dead to begin with. The moon is in the wrong phase. There wasn't any bacon on the breakfast line that morning. Locusts. 

For this reason, working consistently every week (2-3 hours outside of class) and reporting on that work is essential.

## Report Structure

An excellent weekly report will have the following sections:

### In Our Last Episode

A brief (2-3 sentences) summary of where you left off from your previous work session, and what you intended to try and accomplish in this work session.

### The Effort

A description of the work you carried out. Be reasonably detailed. For example, if you attempt to build a circuit, there should be a sketch of it. If you try debugging a circuit, you should describe your strategy. (If you cannot describe your debugging strategy, you don't have one, and you're just guessing. Be intentional and systematic.)

Take pictures, and include them where appropriate.

### Plans and Questions

Finally, close with what your plan is for your next work session, and any questions you have that you need to investigate in the meantime. 

## Expectations

Your reports should be **readable, clear, and thorough**. They can involve bulleted lists, and do not necessarily have to be long-form prose. They don't even have to be grammatically perfect---but they do need to be thorough. 

For example: a total of six bullets across all three sections with nothing more than sentence fragments would be poor at best. 

Ultimately, they're not supposed to take a long time, but they are supposed to help frame your thinking about the work you're doing from one week to the next. And, to help me see how things are progressing, and where you might need help.

## Deadlines

Reports are due by **5AM on Mondays**.  I will come in on Monday mornings and review them so I know where you are at the start of the week. 



